Throughout this lesson, we'll work through
many new ideas related to the Ethereum protocol.
Before jumping into these ideas,
it's helpful to understand why Ethereum exists at all.
In this section, we'll answer a few important questions about Ethereum.
What are its goals? Why was it even created in the first place?
We'll compare Ethereum to earlier protocols,
and discuss how it tries to improve on them.
To start, here's how Ethereum defines themselves on Ethereumm.org.
They're ''A decentralized platform that runs smart contracts:
applications that run exactly as programmed without any possibility of downtime,
censorship, fraud, or third-party interference.''
With that in mind, let's look at why they chose to become this type of platform.
Earlier blockchain protocols functions similar to a machine.
Like bikes, toasters, and cars.
They're created to serve one single purpose.
In Bitcoin, we saw that they solved for currency.
Other early blockchain protocols serve for single issues in a similar way.
The next set of blockchain protocols decided to become more flexible.
This allows them to adapt to a few possible applications instead of focusing on one.
These protocols were more like a Swiss army knife.
If you need a new functionality,
these protocols could adapt to allow it.
This allowed the protocol to change based on the needs of their users.
The problem with these protocols is that the upgrades take a lot of work from developers.
I like to think of this type of protocol as functioning like Legos.
Every time someone wants a new feature,
you need to go and add in a new piece.
Over time, this can add up and you end up with a huge tower that's difficult to manage.
More specific to blockchains,
these protocols often have a variety of transaction types. This is great.
But if you want new functionality,
engineers need to add new transaction types.
In this case, the protocol keeps growing to fit the needs of
users at the expense of becoming very complex.
This is where Ethereum comes in.
Ethereum set out to solve problems it solve with these earlier protocols.
The goal it had in mind,
was to create a generalized platform that allowed others to develop on top of it.
This lets users define their own needs and
develop apps that solve for their unique problems.
By using this approach,
Ethereum allows us to use the same ideas you already know about blockchains,
and extend them even further.
You can go beyond basic functions without Ethereum needing to update its protocol.
This solution is more like an operating system than a Swiss army knife.
Operating systems give you the tools to build many applications on top of it,
and that's what Ethereum is set out to do.
To do this, Ethereum has a programming language named solidity.
We'll be working with solidity later to build applications on the Ethereum platform.
In our case, we'll be making an app that allows you to register stars on the block chain.
In other cases, you might want to create a supply chain management system,
or even a game for collectible kittens like you'll see later.
In each of these cases,
the Ethereum protocol is what allows us to build on top of this platform.
For that reason, we'll continue to explore
this protocol and the tools you can use
to work with it throughout the rest of this lesson.
That wraps up the bit of the history that led to Ethereum.
Hopefully, this helps you better understand where it came from,
and the unique solution it provides to developers.